#javascript :
Why JSON is used?
What is JSON -> JavaScript Object Notation?

Why:
1) It is a lightweight data-interchange format.
2) It is easy for humans to read and write.
3) It is easy for machines to parse and generate.

What:
* JSON is a standard text-based format for representing structured data.

* e.g.
{
"firstName": "Rizwan",
    "lastName": "Mushtaq",
    "gender": "male",
    "dateOfBirth": "2000-08-01",
    "address": {
      "zip": "12345",
      "city": "München",
      "street": "Lonely Street",
      "streetNumber": "103-P",
      "additional": "second floor"
    },
    "phone": "049/34567893",
    "email": "someone@something.de"
}

-> As you see in above example the data is stored in key and value pairs.

Now, next question could be how we use it in our code?

Lets take an example-> You have signup page on your client side, and you want to send all above details to backend api to store user data.

You will read data from signup page form and save it in variable of type object. Now what you do is convert the JavaScript Object to JSON string using stringfy() method. And you send this data to backend api.

In a similar fashion, you will receive data from backend api as JSON string. Now you will use parse() method to convert JSON string to JavaScript Object.

I hope it is bit clear, But it is half part of complete picture,
The next step is to learn about backend api, how it uses JSON to accept data from and send data to client side.

Here JSON schema, comes into the game.

What is JSON Schema?
It is a powerful tool for validating the structure of JSON data.

I will add links in comment section for further reading.

So, Keep learning and growing, having basic understanding of how client and backend api interacts is essential for any web developer.

Please add your knowledge in the topic in comment section.

follow and add Rizwan Mushtaq Dhudhaal 👨‍💻 in your friend list ...
.
.
.
.
#javascript #javascriptdeveloper #javascripttutorial #webdeveloper #webdevelopment